Important things to know about saving for college

1.  Your own retirement is more important than saving for your children's college costs
More sources of money will be available to pay for your children's college than will be available to pay for your retirement.  Don't sacrifice saving for your golden years.
2.  The sooner you start saving, the better.
Given enough time to grow, even a modest savings plan can pack a punch.  Assuming an average return of 8%, investing $100 a month for eighteen years results in a total of over $48,000.
3.  The best college savings portfolio's are comprised of stocks.
Since 1980, tuition costs have risen much faster than the rate of inflation, so a portfolio that consists predominantly of stocks has the best chance of building high long-term savings.  Shelter your returns as your child approaches college age by shifting more money into more stable instruments like bonds and cash.
4.You don't have to save the entire cost of four years of college.
Grants and loans are available from federal, state, and private soruces.  They can help you bridge the gap between your savings and tuition costs, even if you thing you make too much to qualify for aid.
5.  Mutual funds make investing for college simple.
Investing in mutual funds puts a professional in charge of your savings.  You don't have to monitor the markets daily.
6.  529 savings plans are a good way to save for college and they offer great tax breaks
Qualified withdrawals are tax-free.  Plans are available that can let you save anywhere from $100,000 to $270,000 per beneficiary.  Furthermore, 529 plans have no income limitations or age restrictions, so you can start a savings plan no matter how much you make or how old the benficiary is.
7.  Tax breaks are available that are nearly as good as outright grants.
Two federal tax credits are available the years you pay tuition, the Hope Credit and the Lifetime Learning Credit.  
8.  The approval process for college loans is more lenient than for other loans.
Late payments on your credit record are not automatic grounds for refusal of a college loan. 
9.  Lenders can be flexible when it is time to pay back loans
Once you graduate and start paying back loans, you still have options for cutting costs.  After 48 consecutive on-time payments, for example, most lenders will reduce your interest rate by two percent.
